Alright, one configuration option we have
to use for external properties and
Spring Boot is YAML and in this video
we're going to take a little
introduction to the YAML syntax. If
you're familiar with YAML, go ahead
and skip this. If not, continue on. We're
going to get into the YAML syntax. Now
YAML originally stood for yet another
markup language, like we really
do need another markup language out
there. The Authors and the people
working at it actually changed it to mean
'YAML Ain't Markup Language.' So they had a
little play on words there because YAML
is more suited towards describing data
structures than it is being an actual
markup language. Now one of the nice
things about YAML or I don't know if
it's actually nice enough, but pleasant
on the eye is the YAML syntax in the
formatting and how the spacing works to
designate properties and you'll see that
here in action. But for a new beginner
with YAML, if you're first using
YAML, the spacing is very very important.
Some people like to end done with two
spaces, some people like to do four, tabs are
definitely no no. That will not make
YAML very happy. But at least two
spaces, four if you prefer is fine but
there it really isn't a hard rule there
but the YAML syntax, if you have
things off you'll see how we define a
list by defining dashes and properties.
If you have that spacing off, it will
definitely cause you headaches. So I'm
going to jump over to IntelliJ and step
you through some examples in the YAML
syntax. It is really simple and it's actually
kind of fun to code in. Alright let's
take a look at some YAML. So I am going
to create a file under resources and I
am going to call that just example.yml
and the extension you typically want to
use is yml. Now let's start taking a look
at the syntax of this. Now if you start
off with a pound, see that that becomes a
comment and anything that you have
as a comment is going to be ignored by
YAML as far as it being a
data property. So YAML is used to
describe data structures and one
way we can do that is something like. So
now I just set up a property called name
and gave it my name. Now you can also do
list, I did names. And YAML
is very sensitive in spacing so I'd like
to use at least two spaces. Some like to
use four. So this is going to create an
array of names. So John, Paul and Ringo. So
that's a quick easy way to set up a list
and anywhere, you can do inline
comment. So once you hit the pound sign
anything on that line after the pound
sight is going to be ignored.
Now if I want to do a pound,
I could put single quotes around it. Now
that's going to be a value and anything
after that is still going to
be picked up. Now we can do more complex
on objects.
So that's going to create a book object
with properties of author of Joe Buck
and random house. So that's a handy way
to define more complex things. Now
Boolean's can be tricky. So that is a
Boolean of yes. So if I do another truth,
I can just do true like that and that will
come up as a Boolean. I can do more true,
so lower case true. So all these are
going to be evaluating a true. I do
false, so I can do no. So any of those
values would evaluate to Boolean of
false. Now some of the strings that you
need to watch, I do string_vel. So if I
do that with the single tick in there,
YAML is not going to like that. So to
escape that what we want to do is double
quotes around it.
Now YAML recognizes that full line
as a string and then you can get in
trouble also with strings when you do
something like this. So see how I have
that second colon in there. Yaml
definitely will not like that. That's
another one where you have to go in and
escape out the string. Then you can also
do a couple multiple line characters. So
I'm going to include new lines and the
pipe character is going to say to read
in everything. So that whole example
would get brought in and that string
would include the new lines. Now if I say
ignore, put in that character
and typing this is just one long string.
So in that case when this gets parsed in
the YAML processor that will just be
one long string and the new lines
will get dropped. So that's an important
distinction if you have multiple lines
of text that you need to enter into
YAML. Alright that was YAML. So in the next video we are going to
take a look at changing over our Spring
Boot configuration to utilise YAML
for the properties and I'll show you how
to set that up in the next video.